The paradoxical answer to have you sold out, did you take the money off of that?
No, no, but the paradoxical answer is that I sold Father's Day to Alan last year for $25,000.
If I thought this was a commercial novel, if Alan thought it was a commercial novel, I was selling out.
Do I take $25?
You've got to put it on a zero on it, I think, before we start selling out.
Well, not only that, but that wasn't the intention at the time.
That isn't the vocabulary of the players.
That isn't how we think.
We thought we were experimenting.
That John was going to change speeds and try something new.
And when you say we, this is yourself and your editor.
Yes.
And that...
Alan bought a proposal in a first chapter because I was going to use a new vocabulary and try something that hadn't been tried before, which was to write about the Constitution and make a thriller in a post-Cold War era.
Two insights I had that are created as a background to Father's Day.
One, Cold War is over.
Therefore, only the power of the White House is powerful enough to stop the White House.
That shelf of books that you and I have read, the Cold War fiction, it's all gone.
KGB, gone.
Only the power of the White House can stop the White House.
One.
Two, what's really thrilling, what's really scary is the immediate future.
Because we're going to be alive in it, we can't control it, and no one's ever been there.
I put those two things together.
And I came up with what I would call a post-Cold War thriller.
And then how did the movies get involved?
That came from nowhere.
I didn't know about it, didn't know where they were, didn't ever think that way.
I mean, why bother yourself?
No, no, no.
I think the truth of it is, my agent, who's a very, very ambitious 31-year-old woman, maybe Kim Witherspoon, is friends with, of all people, Dick Snyder's son, Matt, who was an agent at CAA, and
He and she had talked about Father's Day and knew how thrilling it was, knew that it had, but they didn't talk to me about this, especially because of my relationship with his father, non-relationship, my episode of his father, and my and Alan's position in public towards his father.
So when the book was done last March, she called me within a week.
Alan called me first and said, Kim's got something to say to you.
I don't know whether you're going to like it, but she's got an agent who very much wants to take your book.
And I said, who?
He said, well, it's PAA.
It's big time.
I said, who?
He said, Matt Snyder.
I said, it's not going to happen, Alan.
He said, now, John, think ahead here.
Don't do this.
You know, that's old news.
And I said, I'm thinking ahead.
It's not going to happen.
That isn't how I write books.
And he said, don't.
And then Kim called me, and she said, now, John, Matt and I had dinner.
He's really excited and he's just sold a book for one and a half million and he thinks he can do better by you.
And I said, it's not going to happen.
Did you say replay that number again?
No.
I said, it's not going to happen.
She said, don't do this to me.
It's not going to happen.
She said, well, how can I tell him this?
I said, well, you can tell him the truth or you can really go.
And within...
four days william morris had come in and called me and said we understand that we hear that and then the frenzy and uh the next week they come down to uci to hear me read the opening chapter my two agents of william morris and kim whom i had and i had had sharp words on monday and i had essentially said well kim we're not going to work together
She flew in from New York that day to pick her up at LAX, and she came to the readings, so I said, my dear Ken, with this gesture, we are together again.
That sort of thing.
And I have a question that's in, the fact that she's as ambitious as I am, and that she recognized that she's not dealing with straightforwardness of that.
She's dealing with somebody who writes things down.
Well, I wouldn't be too pleased.
If you don't do this to me, please, this is my book.
She had a good argument.
She said, you told me when we got together last year.
We met through actually Bob Butler, who found her.
See, I gave Bob to Alan many years ago when Bob was orphaned by one too many enough lives.
And I said, Bob, Bob is the best out of it.
And nobody's handling him well.
So he did a couple of his books at S&S and they treated him even worse.
They treated him terribly.
Well, it's wonderful.
It's wonderful now to, you know, Bob and Alan and I and the rest of Alan's office, we can sit around a table and go, what were they thinking?
But anyway, that's part of the heroism of the story.
The peacock just, you know,
with his way i love this kid i really do i'll never forget the day he walked into my office he said uh bob's very i said he said bob's very happy with her why don't you try so i called her and talked and kim had reminded me while we were having this argument she said you told me that you weren't going to bring any baggage you know that that was behind you i said yes it was and now it's in front of me again and
I let it go, and she let it go, and we're not going to revisit it, although she flinches every time she sees the mention, like in the New York piece, because it's true, the episode and the incident, although we're not talking the Matt Snyder episode now.
We're just talking the general bother thing.
I mean, Dick Snyder's a villain.
But business is business, too.
But it's not.
This isn't business with Snyder.
This is personal.
He tried to hurt Alan, and I hurt him.
And he did?
No.
No, he gave Allen an opportunity that he wouldn't have gotten if he'd stayed at SNS.
This is true, but he wasn't thinking of it.
And that wasn't Dick Snyder's doing.
It was a consequence of Dick Snyder's recklessness.
And Dick Snyder was dealt with by Viacom in the correct fashion.
And he tried to make it into some kind of cruelty.
But in fact, he was just projecting the way he treated people.
They treated him very correctly and wanted to keep him on and honor his contract.
Oh, that is nonsense about them throwing him out.
It's just the baby he is in there.
You know, every 10 millionaire is a baby.
And so my history with Snyder got me to the movies, and then the movies did me within, they had the manuscript.
It is interesting.
The movies had the manuscript, and within three weeks they'd done the auction.
And it was over.
When do you think, what's the, is it on track now?
Oh, I don't know.
I haven't looked.
I followed Hemingway's life.
You know, you go to the state line, you throw the bandit script over, they throw the money back.
You drive home and they drive home.
And God bless.
Actually, on it, I'll take it.
I don't like that.
In 1968, for couples, somebody came in and paid him $400,000.
Never made the movie, so it never bothered him.
And he never looked back.
Check cleared.
That matters.
Yeah.
And he never looked back.
You got it.
14 or 13?
I'm very happy for you, John.
I remember... Look at all those books.
I tell Alan, though, that I pump it up a little bit because some of them are long titles and make it look... He's doing my first book.
Right, I know.
I saw the manuscript when it came in.
And it's going to be...